1. Running 2 different servers on same port will not be allowed by the
   OS. If it was allowed there will be heavy traffic on a single port and none of the servers can run properly.

   http://www.mypages.ac.in/index.html
   http://www.mypages.ac.in:8080/index.html

2. 3 HTTP GET requests
   GET http://www.mynetworkcourse.org/mypage.html HTTP/1.1
   GET http://www.mynetworkcourse.org/network.gif HTTP/1.1
   GET http://www.mynetworkcourse.org/images/network.gif HTTP/1.1

3. Because SMTP is a push type protocol, while retrieving emails from a 
   MTA is pull type. This is because the MTA does not know the IP address of the recipent since SMTP/emails do not use IP addresses. The receiver may pull mails from the mailbox of MTA from any computer. Hence IMAP or POP is used to retrieve mails from MTA.

   Yes, there is a problem. The MTA simply cannot poll which UA is online because the emails do not have IP addresses of the recipents stored in them. Without IP address of the recipent, MTA cannot know which UA is online as the user can login from any device to retrieve mails. Also even if online polling was possible, then after the MTA pushes the mail to the UA, the mail is lost from the mailbox of MTA and the user cannot retieve that mail from another device.

4. FTP uses a separate control channel apart from data channel which is
   used for authentication of the client using username and password. On the other hand HTTP is stateless. Server must keep track of the user's current directory. Hence from security point of view HTTP is not good for large file transfers.

   If HTTP was used, then the same port in the server will be used for command and data transfer and clients cannot be served satisfactorily if the file sizes are large.

5. FTP uses separate channel for command and data transfer to prevent
   the server from busy waiting and keep the command channel lightweight.

   FTP is mainly used for transfer of large files. If same channel is used for command and data transfer, then it will lead to large waiting times for other clients while one client is being served. Using command channel separately, other clients can continue exchanging control information while file transfer is taking place for a client.

   Passive mode of FTP is useful when the client is behind a firewall. Since FTP may change directory contents at client side, a firewall will block connection request from data port of FTP server in active mode. Also in passive mode the server can serve multiple clients at different ports through different threads.

6. Usually 2 transactions are observed between client and local name
   server. The client queries for IP of a domain name, the local name server uses handles the rest of the queries recursively to respective name servers to obtain the IP and then it sends the response back to the client. 

   Yes, we can see a performance bottleneck as one server has to handle so many queries recursively while the client is unkown to these background processes. If caching is done bottleneck can be reduced.

7. cse.iitkgp.ac.in: domain name for which this entry applies
   86400: Time to live in secs, i.e. for how long this entry is valid
   IN: Class (Internet Resources)
   A: Type of the DNS entry, A indicates the record contains information about the IPv4 address of the domain name
   203.110.245.250: Value of the DNS entry, i.e. the IPv4 address of cse.iitkgp.ac.in

8. a) False: L2 Switches need to support only DL and Physical Layer.
             Routers need to support upto Network layer only.
   b) False: PDU Length increases as headers of subsequent layers keep
             on adding to the packet
   c) False: UDP does not provide data delivery. Reliable data delivery
             in case of DNS is ensured at the application layer by retrying.
   d) True:  With pipelining more requests can be handled by the server.